---
layout: default
title: SoC 2016 Organization Application
---

This is a draft of git's application to Google's Summer of Code 2016.

# Git Profile

## Website URL

<http://git-scm.com>

## Tagline

fast, scalable, distributed revision control system

## Logo

![Git Logo](/images/logo.png)

## Primary Open Source License

GPLv2

## Organization Category

Programming Languages and Development Tools

## Technology Tags

c, shell script, git

## Topic Tags

version control, dvcs

## Ideas List

<http://git.github.io/SoC-2016-Ideas/>

## Short Description (180 chars max)

Git is the most widely-used revision control system in Open Source. It
is a distributed system with an emphasis on speed, data integrity, and
support for many workflows.

## Long Description

Git is the most widely-used revision control system in Open Source. It
is a distributed system with an emphasis on speed, data integrity, and
support for distributed, non-linear workflows.

Many large and successful projects use Git, including the Linux
Kernel, Perl, Eclipse, Gnome, KDE, Qt, Ruby on Rails, Android,
PostgreSQL, Debian, and X.org.

## Application Instructions

```
Guidance for students on how to apply to your organization. Should
include any prerequisites or requirements. You may wish to include a
template or tips for their proposals. May include limited Markdown.
```

Please read the "About applying for SoC with the Git project" section
in the ideas page: http://git.github.io/SoC-2016-Ideas/

The primary way to contact the Git community is through the Git
mailing list git@vger.kernel.org. Please discuss your application on
this list.

## Proposal Tags

```
Enter tags that students can select (one) from and apply to their own
proposals to help organize them. Examples: New Feature, Optimization.
You can also use these to designate "sub-organizations" if you are an
umbrella organization.
```

new feature, refactoring

## IRC Channel, Mailing List, or Email

Most of the development takes place on the git@vger.kernel.org
mailing-list. See <http://vger.kernel.org/vger-lists.html#git> for
instructions.

There is also an IRC channel: <http://git-scm.com/community>.

# 2016 Application Form

## Why does your org want to participate in Google Summer of Code?

With the exception of 2013, Git has participated in GSoC every year
since 2007. We have appreciated not only the code contributions, but
also the increased project visibility and the addition of new long-term
contributors. We also believe strongly in helping students become
comfortable contributing to open source in general, even if they do not
remain involved with Git itself.

## How many potential mentors have agreed to mentor this year?

We have 3 potential mentors this year. This is a smaller number than in
previous years, and we expect to take a correspondingly smaller number
of projects (probably only 1 or 2).

All mentors are volunteers for the specific projects that they can
contribute the most to (i.e., ones that meet their interests and
abilities). All mentors are active contributors within the Git
development community, and well-known to the project leadership.

Active contributors are defined to be those who have submitted and have
had accepted into a shipped release a substantial amount of code, where
substantial is defined to be equal to or larger than what might be
expected of a student working on a Google Summer of Code project.

## How will you keep mentors engaged with their students?

We think that the most important part of GSoC is integrating the student
into the normal communication channels used by other project
participants. We don't expect regular developers to go silent for 3
months and then dump 10,000 lines of code on us to review, and we don't
want students to do that to us either. The first step in dealing with
disappearing students is to make sure they are engaging with the
community on design and code issues, and reaching small milestones on
the way to the project. Then if they do disappear, we know quickly and
can react, rather than being surprised at the end.

Once they do disappear, we'll obviously try to contact them and find out
what's going on. But ultimately, non-communication is grounds for a
failing evaluation, regardless of any code produced.

We plan to take fewer projects than we have as mentors, so that the
remainder can act as backups. Most of our projects can be mentored by
any of the mentors, and by keeping student progress public and reviewed on
the list, there's a good chance that another mentor (or the community at
large) can pick up the slack. We try to keep the "bus factor" high for
regular development, and we should do it for mentors, too.

## How will you help your students stay on schedule to complete their projects?

## How will you get your students involved in your community during GSoC?

Students will be required to join the main development mailing list and
post their patches for discussion. All current contributors already do
this, so students will be able to see experienced hands performing the
same tasks and learn by example. We also feel that the list-based
discussions will help the student to become and stay a member of the
community.

The traffic on the list is focused around Git feature development. We
expect the students to stay current by at least skimming the messages,
and participating in discussions that are close to their area of work.

Students will also be required to post their work as a Git repository on
a publicly available server so that their works-in-progress will be
available for everyone to review. However, as patch review typically
happens on the mailing list, we expect that to be the main venue for
review of the students' work.

Mentors will also exchange direct email with students on at least a
weekly basis, if not more frequently. Students will be required to
provide weekly progress reports back to their mentors, so that mentors
are aware of the tasks that a student might be stuck on or are having
difficulty with. The intent of the progress reports
is to give the mentors a chance to provide suggestions for problem
resolution back to the student.

Frequent email and IRC interaction with mentors and other developers
will be strongly encouraged by suggesting students post their questions
and ideas to the mailing list, and to discuss them on #git.  Many
developers either already hold "office-hours" on IRC, or have agreed to
do so during the GSoC period.

## How will you keep students involved with your community after GSoC?

Ultimately we have no leverage over the students after they leave, so
the best we can do is to help them form habits of interaction that they
might find rewarding and want to continue with. We specifically don't
want to give the student a "half project" that needs more work after the
GSoC period is done. That's not fair to the student, nor to the project.

Instead, we'd prefer to get the student involved in the day-to-day of
interacting on the mailing list, reviewing code, and commenting on other
people's ideas and problems. Those are things they can continue to do
after GSoC ends, and those discussions can often spur more coding.

## Has your org been accepted as a mentoring org in Google Summer of Code before?

### Has your org been accepted as a mentoring org in Google Summer of Code before?

Yes

### Which years did your org participate in GSoC?

Every year since 2007 except 2013.

### What is your success/fail rate per year?

Here is a summary of our completed/failed projects per year, along with
the number of retained contributors (where "retained" is calculated by
finding contributors which continued to participate on the mailing list
a year or more after their GSoC period ended):

 - 2007: 2 success, 1 failure, 1 student retained
 - 2008: 4 success, 2 failure, 3 students retained
 - 2009: 1 success, 1 failure, 0 students retained
 - 2010: 3 success, 1 failure, 3 students retained
 - 2011: 5 success, 0 failure, 4 students retained
 - 2012: 3 success, 0 failure, 2 students retained
 - 2014: 2 success, 1 failure, 1 student retained

### If your org has applied for GSoC before but not been accepted, select the years:

## Are you part of a foundation/umbrella organization?

## What year was your project started?

# Remarks on the current state of the application

The 2015 application had a question "If you chose "veteran" in the
organization profile dropdown, please summarize your involvement and
the successes and challenges of your participation. Please also list
your pass/fail rate for each year." with a very detailed answer.
